---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

I thought I was going to drop this class this week. If I would have gotten a zero on Collatz, our first project, it would have been implausible for me to achieve an A in this class. In leiu of our first project not being very difficult conceptually, I barely stumbled through this project because the instructions were very unclear to me. There is no way I would have completed this project without lots of asking: asking classmates for clarification on the instructions, asking questions about the correct directory structure for our final submission, asking Downing if there were any acceptions to his "you get a zero if your program doesn't compile on Sphere by the due date" policy. To give you a better understanding of his project descriptions, Downing provides a disclaimer for every project:

>All software specs are inherently incomplete and have some mistakes. This is not intentional. It is simply in the nature of trying to think of every possibility, which is impossible.

>So, it is critical that you discover what you don't think is clear enough, by posting questions to Piazza, talking to each other, and asking questions in class.

>Your future manager is going to want to see that you are proactive about finding out what is required of you and getting it done.

This sounds like a cop-out to justify the vague nature of his instructions, which is solely my opinion. I don't say this to comdemn Downing as a bad instructor, I doubt anyone who has been exposed to his teaching would even consider that. Besides, our professor and TAs are very active on Piazza, with a current average response time of 9 minutes (although that does include student responses), not to mention how gracious Donwing was to allow me to turn it in late for a late grade. Additionally, didn't start early on this project, which is the primary reason I had this trouble. The moral of the story is, listen to, read, and do everything Downing says and you will surely be successful in this class and avoid the trouble I had this week.

My only question is, given he knows how difficult his instructions are to decihper, whether he is actively trying to improve the language of his assignment descriptions to avoid confusion, or he is deliberately keeping the instructions vague because he wants us to be "proactive about finding out what is required of [us] and getting it done."

**Tip Of The Week:** [Ideone.com](https://ideone.com/) is an online IDE I use when I don't have quick access to an IDE or linux machine. It may be useful if you find yourself in a similar situation.
