---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

I barely went to class this week. With the career fair and a guy from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory presenting (who I had already talked to a few times), I was not required to go to class. Thankfully Downing was understanding enough to allow these absences and did not give on either of those days. He did lecture though, and coming in on Friday I felt like I missed a lot from Monday, but it was easy to pick up once we started using Templates, the concept that was taught on Monday. 

We had to turn in our Australian Voting project this week. It feels so rewarding to find a bug you have been trying to solve for hours. Thankfully I found a bug that my partner made and he found a bug that I made, making us both feel like we contributed. I ranted about my feelings on the tools we are using last week. Let it be known that some online judges are just not intuitive. If I could decide, we would not use any of them. But, comparing the two we have used so far, Sphere is designed better than UVa. It would be nice to link to the build of my program once I submit it, which Sphere offers and UVa does not. Forcing me to click extra times to get to something directly related to x screams bad UI. HackerRank is better than both of them anyway.

**Tip of the week!!!:**

**Go. To. Hackathons!** Visit https://mlh.io/ to see what hackathons are considered “official” and that will likely have great prizes. For those of us who don’t have the money to drive or fly out to a different state for a hackathon, go to http://www.hackalist.org/ and see which hackathons provide travel reimbursements! Ideally, if you are interested I a particular hackathon, you would want to go to their website directly because that site may not be comprehensive or up to date. As a junior and a first time hackathon winner (HackTX), I cannot stress the importance of getting involved with the hackathon community. You will be exposed to many genuinely compassionate individuals and cool folk in general. You will be surrounded by people with innovative ideas and tremendous technical skills. Even if you have zero programming experience, this is a chance to start learning! I really want to stress, on top of learning a whole lot about Javascript this weekend, my faith in software engineering was restored. I met several engineers at tech companies and companies that have a very large technology division that care deeply about diversity in computing. I talked for hours about their efforts, my efforts, and future plans to increase awareness on diversity and diversity in the tech industry. I truly believe the people that go to these hackathons care about the success of the students that participate, and you will not be able to go after you graduate so take advantage of it right now!
