---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

This week was all about iterators and their underlying structure. Iterators, templates, unary functions, binary funtions, the C++ STL and which functions can be cast to that, lambdas, closures, operators and operator functions. A lot of information about C++ Before this week, I had never thought of operators as functions. There are several interesting nuances in 
C++ only a few of which I have learned about so far. For example, there is no intiutive way for the compiler to diferentiante pre-increment and post-increment operator functions in C++. You have to put "(int)" at the end of the function header, which is pretty "gacky" as the esteemed Mike Scott would say. Also, the way Downing formats his curly braces for functions is irregular, based on my exposure to Java and C. Having seen Downing write functions in class, I thought the C++ style guidelines suggested methods be formatted this way: 

```
int foo(int a, int b){
int temp = a;
b = a;
a = temp;}
```

This is how Downing codes, and it is slightly confusing. After quickly browsing the [C++ style guide](https://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/cppguide.html) from a few sources I realized that was not conventional C++ style. Personally, I think something like this is optimal if the goal is readability:

```
int foo(int a, int b)
{
  int res = a;
  for(int i = 1; i < b; ++i)
    res *= a;
}
```

Whether or not you think C++ syntax is plain and unattractive, C++ is a very powerful language that has been used to program many of the applications today. This is why the tip of the week is [a list of widely used software written in C++](http://jabroo.blogspot.com/2012/08/c-plus-plus-applications-list.html). [Chances are](http://www.w3schools.com/browsers/browsers_stats.asp) you are reading this post on Google Chrome, which was written in C++. Most popular web browsers were written in C++ as well. Want to know what else is written in C++? Microsoft office, Youtube, and most recent video games, to name a few. If you are having any doubts about the usefulness of this language and need some reassurance, take a gander at this site or just open up [Steam](http://store.steampowered.com/).
