---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

I don't know where to start. Downing seems to make good use of his time in the classroom. Often a lot of time is classes with one-hour lectures setting up and refocusing the class, but Downing makes great use of our time in class giving tips on our assignments and helping students understand concepts and tools necessary for his assignments. This means it is very helpful to start early on projects. This way you can immediately apply the tips and tricks Downing discusses in class instead of trying to commit it all to memory to implement once you get to that stage in the project. I'm learning this the hard way right now to hopefully save myself trouble when the amount of coding gets heavy.

I continue to see general teaching tactics/principles that Downing uses in his classroom. He is the first computer science professer I have had so far that goes down the roster and calls out students to answer questions out loud to the class (this could be attributed to the sheer size of most of the computer science courses I have taken so far at the university). Lots of students express their anxiety for getting called on because they are afraid of providing an incorrect answer and looking foolish in front of their peers. Even my heart skipped a beat when he called out someone's name that starts with an M a few days ago. This is another part of his scheme to improve his students' communication skills when having technical discussions.

It is still pretty early on in the semester, so concepts Downing discusses are not too difficult to grasp at the moment, but be sure to pace yourself and do not get overconfident in your understanding of the material, because you will fall behind

Tip of the Week: I should have posted this last week, but I am only now seeing the usefulness of the step-by-step guide I found on how to set up a blog with Jekyll. Several people told me it took them hours to download, compile, and get Jekyll up and running, not to mention setting up blog-style posting. Find it [here.](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/)

