---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

This week, we have started project 2, emulating Australia's voting system. The familiar feelings of talking through algorithms and refactoring code I remember from Operating Systems have quickly come back to me. To me, this is what it feels like to be a software engineer. It is interesting that I had no sense of these feelings during our first project, as it was overly focused on familiarizing ourselves with the tools we would be using. I’ll drop that subject there since I ranted on the topic last week. But, I will highlight the usefulness of these tools. I believe my frustration with these tools has overshadowed their value. The Google Test library provides great scalability when trying to exhaustively test your programs, so don’t be weary to use it beyond your time in OOP. Also, Travis CI is helpful with full Github integration and a step by step report of your build. It even emails you the results of your build in case you have a massive project and you’d prefer to close the window and carry on with your business. However upsetting using these tools for the first time may be, becoming familiar with them could save you a lot of time and effort when testing.

It is career fair week! Now is the time to fervently apply for summer internships, update your resume, and stand in the mirror with your best superman pose to increase confidence! By now, company recruiting in in full effect and companies are looking to employ YOU. Yes, even the biggest and most innovative tech companies. The key to getting the internship of your dreams is being prepared. There are so many aspects to portraying yourself as *the* candidate for the job, I couldn’t possibly address them all. So, I’ll focus on a one of which I feel I have a good understanding. Mind you, I worked at a visualization lab last summer, which is considered an academic environment and not seen as industry experience. First of all, you only have two ways to make a first impression on recruiters: your resume and personal interaction at a career fair or information session. They are going to see hundreds of people very similar to you who are just as excited to work for X company as you are. You must find a way to stand out. Instead of trying to talk to every single company, spend some time researching specifics of five to seven companies that you can envision yourself working for full-time. Practice the virtue “quality over quantity.” Employers will be impressed if you can talk to them about why the company makes certain decisions and how it affects their competition and the overall market. If you can have high-level discussions about their company in addition to your technical aptitude, you might be remembered over the next guy or girl. 

**Tip Of The Week:** Several companies have turned to websites that allow them to set up and host technical challenges that they can then provide a simple link to for candidates as a screening process. The primary site I’ve seen used is [hackerank.com](hackerrank.com). HackerRank is a great place to go to test your skills with various challenges on a breadth of topics. I would say it is crucial to become acquainted with their format, especially considering you may be asked to complete a timed test to move on to the next round in the interview process. I have already been asked to complete a challenge through this site twice. They also frequently host contests that might land you job or at least an interview if you win. It is definitely worth visiting if you haven’t already.
