---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

So this week was exam one. There are only two tests in this course and no final. Consider when anticipating what the exam would be like. It was somewhat overwhelming for me, but it is to be expected when there are only two exams. As sort of a premature tip of the week (even though many of us may already know this), tediously reviewing my implementations line by line is something I struggle with. Something as trivial as incrementing counters in while loops could ruin your performance.

Tip of the week:
There are lots of resources available to sharpen your technical interviewing skills. Many sites, including hackerrank which I have chosen as the tip of the week on a previous post, provide competitive programming type questions over data structures and algorithms that that employers like to see, and largely pool from for interview questions. All of them seem helpful—topcoder, leetcode, codechef, just to name a few, but Hackerrank is my current favorite. It also seems to be the favorite among tech companies, as I and several of my friends have been invited to complete coding challenges hosted by them. Another site was heavily suggested to me by an engineer at a software engineering company. This person stressed I be exposed to dynamic programming type questions as people who participate in dynamic programming competitions seem do well in interviews. Codeeval.com offers three levels of questions, easy, medium, and hard, each with approximately 75 questions. They also facilitate job postings from various companies. So far I have done three problems, and am already convinced the problems they focus on will prepare me for coding challenges and technical interviews. I suggest you check it out!
