---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

This week has been a bit discombobulating for me. I have not gotten into the routine of my classes yet, including OOP. Glenn Downing's voice was the most striking think about him. I was fixated on it the first day. He has a high pitched voice that I did not expect. Students across the CS department rave about his classes and teaching, so I had an idea of what he would be like in my head. Needless to say, my idea was wrong. 

I had a really positive feeling coming out of OOP the first day. It seems like half of the course is about preparing you to be a competent programmer in the industry, not just shoving syntax down your throat. His class is structured unlike any other computer science course I have taken in the department. He puts an importance on communication skills. For example, he calls on people every day to talk out what the code we are looking at for that day does. One thing he harps on is, "If you can't explain what your program does, no one can use it." Having us go through the programs we discuss in class line by line, explaining at each step of the way, forces us to actually evaluate the accuracy of our program. This helps us create good habits when it comes to debugging, since we can overlook problems in our code by not being as thorough as we should. My friend informed me that this is a poofreading technique she uses when teaching students how to revise their own essays. Walking through it verbally makes it slightly easier to catch any mistakes in your code, or in her case, essays.

Tip of the week: Since this week is somewhat of an introduction, here is a website that introduces you to Vim in an interactive way...with a game! The first few levels are free, so you can at least get the basics of Vim down without having to pay for alicense. This could come in handy if you'd like to edit any code you are pushing to github locally. Find it here: http://vim-adventures.com/
